                          QTL Cartographer 
           
           
                     Frequently Asked Questions
                     
                     
The following questions were addressed (repeatedly) to Chris Basten.  Most
of the answers should now be in the newest manual.  You should first get
the README file off the server and read it.  Then read this list.  If you 
still have a question, email basten@statgen.ncsu.edu.  
           
1.  How do I get QTL Cartographer?
		Ftp to statgen.ncsu.edu.  Use ftp as your username,
		and your email address as the password.  cd to /pub/qtlcart.
		Get the version you want.
		
		Or:  point your web browser to http://statgen.ncsu.edu/ and
		follow the link called 'Software' and from there follow the
		'QTL Cartographer' link.   
		
2.  What are the different versions?
		Get the README file in the /pub/qtlcart subdirectory...it will
		explain what the different versions are.
		
3.  What is the relationship between LOD and your LR test statistic?
		LOD = 0.217 LR
		
4.  I have not been able to reach ftp server to get qtlcart program:  do
	you know if the server is up?
		Sometimes we have power or network outages and the server will be
		unreachable.  You will have to try again later.

5.	I tried downloading QTL Cartographer, but the ftp program timed out
	sometime in the middle of downloading.  What is the problem.
		The internet is getting busier all the time.  You may have to try again
		at a less busy time.  Saturday and Sunday may be your best bet, and 
		take into account that we are on the east coast of the United States.
		
6.  Is there an ftp mirror in Europe (or Asia) for the programs?
		No (No).
		
7.  Can QTL Cartographer input Excel files?  Will it ever?
		No. No.
		
8.  Will the MS-Windows version run under Windows 95?  
		Yes, it should.  It will run in 16 bit mode.  We will try to get
		32 bit versions ready in the future.  
		
		As of the fall of 1997, the 32 bit versions are available.   The
		16 bit versions may be discontinued sometime in 1998.
		
		Now it is 2003.  The 16 bit versions are history.   You can still get
		v1.12f off the server, but no new 16 bit versions will be compiled.
		
9.  How does one print postscript files in MS-DOS, MS Windows 3.x  or  Macintosh?
		From DOS, you can copy a postscript file to the printer port, and if
		the printer can handle postscript, it will print fine.  Use

		c:\>  copy manual.ps lpt1:


		For the Mac, you can use  utility called DropPS, which is available 
		on many anonymous ftp sites.
         
         
10. How can I get the significance level and how do I interpret it?
		You need to run a permutation test.  See the references in the manual
		for the interpretation. 
		
11. How do you prefer to cite this software program?
		Use the following:
		
		C.J.  Basten, B.S. Weir and Z.-B. Zeng, 2003.  QTL Cartographer: A Reference
		Manual and Tutorial for QTL Mapping.  Department of Statistics, North 
		Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC.
		
		
		C. J. Basten, B. S. Weir and Z.-B. Zeng, 1994. Zmap--a QTL cartographer.
		IN Proceedings of the 5th World Congress on Genetics Applied 
		to Livestock Production: Computing Strategies and Software,
		edited by C. Smith, J. S. Gavora, B. Benkel, J. Chesnais, W. Fairfull, 
		J. P. Gibson, B. W. Kennedy and E. B. Burnside.
		Vol 22, pages 65-66.

12. I was wondering if QTL Cartographer now handles BC2 populations? 
 		Yes.  If you backcross i times to P1, then use BC1i.  If i times
 		to P2, BC2i would be the proper cross.

13. Can I get an MS-Word or WordPerfect version of the manual?  
		No to both.  

14. Will there ever be an MS-Word or WordPerfect version of the manual?
		No.

15. Why can't I see the equations in the html version of the manual?
		Latex2HTML isn't perfect.   It is being improved, so the translation
		from Latex to HTML will be better in the future.

16. What is the difference between r2 and tr2?

      R2 and TR2 are now calculated by Zmapqtl.  R2 is the proportion of 
  variance explained by a QTL at a test site with the estimated parameters.
  TR2 is the proportion of variance explained by a QTL conditioned on the
  cofactors in composite interval mapping.  
  
  Let
     H0: y = u + XB + e
     H1: y = u + ax + dz + XB + e
  where a and d are the additive and dominance effects, XB is the matrix
  of cofactors and estimates of their effects, u is the mean and e the
  residual.  If s0 and s1 are the sample standard deviations of the
  e's under H0 and H1, and st is the standard deviation of the y's, then
  
  R2 = (s0^2 - s1^2)/s0^2
  
  TR2 =  (st^2 - s1^2)/st^2
  
17.  What is the meaning of the following message from LRmapqtl that 
turns up in the log file?

"Had trouble doing the linear regression of data from c:\cartb\qtlb-ult.cro...
errorlevel =   47"


	LRmapqtl failed on the linear regression for 47 of the tests.  The number of tests is
	the number of markers time the number of traits.   If x(i) is the marker value
	for individual i, then Sxx = sum x(i)^2  - (sum x(i))^2/n.  If Sxx is zero,
	then the linear regression will fail.

18.  I have a problem with the Windows front end.  Who do I contact?  

    The Windows front-end was written by and is maintained by Shengchu Wang.
    His email address is shchwang@statgen.ncsu.edu and all questions related to 
    using the front-end should be directed to him.
    
19.  I'm a little confused about the variables in the *.qtl file. Could you give
a little info on the first column (seems to always be "-1"), the variables
".RecombiL." and ".RecombiR." I assume that ".Additive." and ".Dominance."
 are the additive and dominance effects.Thanks!
 
 
	The first column is the token "-l" (minus ell) indicating a new line.
	The chromosome and marker define the left flanking marker.   RecombiL is
	the recombination rate between the QTL and the left flanking marker. RecombiR
	is the rate between the QTL and the right flanking marker.   For chromosome c and
	marker r,
	
					 RecombiL    RecombiR
	c   -----------|-----------^-----|--------
				   m                m+1

    
